modules/ecs/README.md, before:

# ECS Module

Creates an ECS Fargate cluster, task definition, service, and logging.

<!-- BEGIN_TF_DOCS -->
## Requirements

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="requirement_aws"></a> [aws](#requirement\_aws) | >= 5.0 |

## Providers

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="provider_aws"></a> [aws](#provider\_aws) | >= 5.0 |

## Modules

No modules.

## Resources

| Name | Type |
|------|------|
| [aws_cloudwatch_log_group.ecs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/cloudwatch_log_group) | resource |
| [aws_ecs_cluster.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/ecs_cluster) | resource |
| [aws_ecs_service.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/ecs_service) | resource |
| [aws_ecs_task_definition.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/ecs_task_definition) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role.task](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role.task_execution](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role_policy.task_execution_exec](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role_policy) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role_policy.task_execution_secrets](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role_policy) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role_policy_attachment.task_execution_managed](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role_policy_attachment) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role_policy_attachment.task_role_extra](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role_policy_attachment) | resource |
| [aws_iam_policy_document.task_assume](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/iam_policy_document) | data source |
| [aws_iam_policy_document.task_execution_exec](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/iam_policy_document) | data source |
| [aws_iam_policy_document.task_execution_secrets](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/iam_policy_document) | data source |
| [aws_region.current](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/region) | data source |

## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| <a name="input_assign_public_ip"></a> [assign\_public\_ip](#input\_assign\_public\_ip) | Assign public IPs to tasks. | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_container_image"></a> [container\_image](#input\_container\_image) | Container image to run. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_container_port"></a> [container\_port](#input\_container\_port) | Container port to expose. | `number` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_container_secrets"></a> [container\_secrets](#input\_container\_secrets) | Secrets for the container (name => secret ARN). | `map(string)` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_container_user"></a> [container\_user](#input\_container\_user) | User ID for the container process (non-root by default). | `string` | `"1000"` | no |
| <a name="input_cpu"></a> [cpu](#input\_cpu) | Task CPU units. | `number` | `256` | no |
| <a name="input_deployment_maximum_percent"></a> [deployment\_maximum\_percent](#input\_deployment\_maximum\_percent) | Maximum percent for deployments. | `number` | `200` | no |
| <a name="input_deployment_minimum_healthy_percent"></a> [deployment\_minimum\_healthy\_percent](#input\_deployment\_minimum\_healthy\_percent) | Minimum healthy percent for deployments. | `number` | `50` | no |
| <a name="input_desired_count"></a> [desired\_count](#input\_desired\_count) | Desired number of tasks. | `number` | `1` | no |
| <a name="input_enable_container_insights"></a> [enable\_container\_insights](#input\_enable\_container\_insights) | Enable ECS container insights. | `bool` | `true` | no |
| <a name="input_enable_execute_command"></a> [enable\_execute\_command](#input\_enable\_execute\_command) | Enable ECS exec. | `bool` | `true` | no |
| <a name="input_environment"></a> [environment](#input\_environment) | Environment name (dev/prod). | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_environment_variables"></a> [environment\_variables](#input\_environment\_variables) | Plaintext environment variables for the container. | `map(string)` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_health_check_grace_period_seconds"></a> [health\_check\_grace\_period\_seconds](#input\_health\_check\_grace\_period\_seconds) | Grace period before health checks start. | `number` | `60` | no |
| <a name="input_kms_key_arns"></a> [kms\_key\_arns](#input\_kms\_key\_arns) | KMS key ARNs used to decrypt secrets. | `list(string)` | `[]` | no |
| <a name="input_log_retention_in_days"></a> [log\_retention\_in\_days](#input\_log\_retention\_in\_days) | Retention days for ECS logs. | `number` | `30` | no |
| <a name="input_memory"></a> [memory](#input\_memory) | Task memory (MiB). | `number` | `512` | no |
| <a name="input_name_prefix"></a> [name\_prefix](#input\_name\_prefix) | Prefix used for naming ECS resources. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_private_subnet_ids"></a> [private\_subnet\_ids](#input\_private\_subnet\_ids) | Private subnet IDs for the ECS service. | `list(string)` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_readonly_root_filesystem"></a> [readonly\_root\_filesystem](#input\_readonly\_root\_filesystem) | Run the container with a read-only root filesystem. | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_secrets_arns"></a> [secrets\_arns](#input\_secrets\_arns) | Secret ARNs that the execution role needs to access. | `list(string)` | `[]` | no |
| <a name="input_security_group_id"></a> [security\_group\_id](#input\_security\_group\_id) | Security group ID to attach to ECS tasks. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_tags"></a> [tags](#input\_tags) | Tags to apply to ECS resources. | `map(string)` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_target_group_arn"></a> [target\_group\_arn](#input\_target\_group\_arn) | Target group ARN for the ECS service. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_task_role_policy_arns"></a> [task\_role\_policy\_arns](#input\_task\_role\_policy\_arns) | Additional policy ARNs to attach to the task role. | `list(string)` | `[]` | no |

## Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| <a name="output_cluster_name"></a> [cluster\_name](#output\_cluster\_name) | Name of the ECS cluster. |
| <a name="output_log_group_name"></a> [log\_group\_name](#output\_log\_group\_name) | CloudWatch log group name for ECS logs. |
| <a name="output_service_name"></a> [service\_name](#output\_service\_name) | Name of the ECS service. |
| <a name="output_task_execution_role_arn"></a> [task\_execution\_role\_arn](#output\_task\_execution\_role\_arn) | ARN of the ECS task execution role. |
| <a name="output_task_role_arn"></a> [task\_role\_arn](#output\_task\_role\_arn) | ARN of the ECS task role. |
<!-- END_TF_DOCS -->

Commit message:

docs: refresh platform and module narratives

modules/ecs/README.md, after:

# ECS Module

This module runs the application as an ECS Fargate service. It creates the cluster, task definition, service, IAM roles, and log group. Networking and load balancer wiring are passed in from the environment. It does not build container images or define autoscaling policies.

## Why This Module Exists

- Keep IAM and logging defaults consistent across environments.
- Separate compute concerns from networking and database modules.
- Make task sizing and runtime settings explicit inputs.

<!-- BEGIN_TF_DOCS -->
## Requirements

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="requirement_aws"></a> [aws](#requirement\_aws) | >= 5.0 |

## Providers

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="provider_aws"></a> [aws](#provider\_aws) | >= 5.0 |

## Modules

No modules.

## Resources

| Name | Type |
|------|------|
| [aws_cloudwatch_log_group.ecs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/cloudwatch_log_group) | resource |
| [aws_ecs_cluster.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/ecs_cluster) | resource |
| [aws_ecs_service.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/ecs_service) | resource |
| [aws_ecs_task_definition.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/ecs_task_definition) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role.task](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role.task_execution](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role_policy.task_execution_exec](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role_policy) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role_policy.task_execution_secrets](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role_policy) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role_policy_attachment.task_execution_managed](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role_policy_attachment) | resource |
| [aws_iam_role_policy_attachment.task_role_extra](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role_policy_attachment) | resource |
| [aws_iam_policy_document.task_assume](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/iam_policy_document) | data source |
| [aws_iam_policy_document.task_execution_exec](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/iam_policy_document) | data source |
| [aws_iam_policy_document.task_execution_secrets](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/iam_policy_document) | data source |
| [aws_region.current](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/region) | data source |

## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| <a name="input_assign_public_ip"></a> [assign\_public\_ip](#input\_assign\_public\_ip) | Assign public IPs to tasks. | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_container_image"></a> [container\_image](#input\_container\_image) | Container image to run. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_container_port"></a> [container\_port](#input\_container\_port) | Container port to expose. | `number` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_container_secrets"></a> [container\_secrets](#input\_container\_secrets) | Secrets for the container (name => secret ARN). | `map(string)` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_container_user"></a> [container\_user](#input\_container\_user) | User ID for the container process (non-root by default). | `string` | `"1000"` | no |
| <a name="input_cpu"></a> [cpu](#input\_cpu) | Task CPU units. | `number` | `256` | no |
| <a name="input_deployment_maximum_percent"></a> [deployment\_maximum\_percent](#input\_deployment\_maximum\_percent) | Maximum percent for deployments. | `number` | `200` | no |
| <a name="input_deployment_minimum_healthy_percent"></a> [deployment\_minimum\_healthy\_percent](#input\_deployment\_minimum\_healthy\_percent) | Minimum healthy percent for deployments. | `number` | `50` | no |
| <a name="input_desired_count"></a> [desired\_count](#input\_desired\_count) | Desired number of tasks. | `number` | `1` | no |
| <a name="input_enable_container_insights"></a> [enable\_container\_insights](#input\_enable\_container\_insights) | Enable ECS container insights. | `bool` | `true` | no |
| <a name="input_enable_execute_command"></a> [enable\_execute\_command](#input\_enable\_execute\_command) | Enable ECS exec. | `bool` | `true` | no |
| <a name="input_environment"></a> [environment](#input\_environment) | Environment name (dev/prod). | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_environment_variables"></a> [environment\_variables](#input\_environment\_variables) | Plaintext environment variables for the container. | `map(string)` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_health_check_grace_period_seconds"></a> [health\_check\_grace\_period\_seconds](#input\_health\_check\_grace\_period\_seconds) | Grace period before health checks start. | `number` | `60` | no |
| <a name="input_kms_key_arns"></a> [kms\_key\_arns](#input\_kms\_key\_arns) | KMS key ARNs used to decrypt secrets. | `list(string)` | `[]` | no |
| <a name="input_log_retention_in_days"></a> [log\_retention\_in\_days](#input\_log\_retention\_in\_days) | Retention days for ECS logs. | `number` | `30` | no |
| <a name="input_memory"></a> [memory](#input\_memory) | Task memory (MiB). | `number` | `512` | no |
| <a name="input_name_prefix"></a> [name\_prefix](#input\_name\_prefix) | Prefix used for naming ECS resources. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_private_subnet_ids"></a> [private\_subnet\_ids](#input\_private\_subnet\_ids) | Private subnet IDs for the ECS service. | `list(string)` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_readonly_root_filesystem"></a> [readonly\_root\_filesystem](#input\_readonly\_root\_filesystem) | Run the container with a read-only root filesystem. | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_secrets_arns"></a> [secrets\_arns](#input\_secrets\_arns) | Secret ARNs that the execution role needs to access. | `list(string)` | `[]` | no |
| <a name="input_security_group_id"></a> [security\_group\_id](#input\_security\_group\_id) | Security group ID to attach to ECS tasks. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_tags"></a> [tags](#input\_tags) | Tags to apply to ECS resources. | `map(string)` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_target_group_arn"></a> [target\_group\_arn](#input\_target\_group\_arn) | Target group ARN for the ECS service. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_task_role_policy_arns"></a> [task\_role\_policy\_arns](#input\_task\_role\_policy\_arns) | Additional policy ARNs to attach to the task role. | `list(string)` | `[]` | no |

## Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| <a name="output_cluster_name"></a> [cluster\_name](#output\_cluster\_name) | Name of the ECS cluster. |
| <a name="output_log_group_name"></a> [log\_group\_name](#output\_log\_group\_name) | CloudWatch log group name for ECS logs. |
| <a name="output_service_name"></a> [service\_name](#output\_service\_name) | Name of the ECS service. |
| <a name="output_task_execution_role_arn"></a> [task\_execution\_role\_arn](#output\_task\_execution\_role\_arn) | ARN of the ECS task execution role. |
| <a name="output_task_role_arn"></a> [task\_role\_arn](#output\_task\_role\_arn) | ARN of the ECS task role. |
<!-- END_TF_DOCS -->
