modules/alb/README.md, before:

# ALB Module

This module owns the public edge: an internet-facing ALB, a target group, listeners, optional access logs, optional WAF association, and the security group rules around them. It expects the VPC, subnets, and ACM certificate to be provided by the environment, and it does not manage DNS or certificates.

## Why This Module Exists

- Keep the HTTPS-by-default behavior (and optional dev HTTP) in one place.
- Make the edge security group rules explicit and reusable.
- Avoid mixing edge concerns with ECS or networking logic.

<!-- BEGIN_TF_DOCS -->
## Requirements

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="requirement_aws"></a> [aws](#requirement\_aws) | >= 5.0 |

## Providers

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="provider_aws"></a> [aws](#provider\_aws) | 6.28.0 |

## Modules

No modules.

## Resources

| Name | Type |
|------|------|
| [aws_lb.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lb) | resource |
| [aws_lb_listener.http](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lb_listener) | resource |
| [aws_lb_listener.https](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lb_listener) | resource |
| [aws_lb_target_group.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lb_target_group) | resource |
| [aws_security_group.alb](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/security_group) | resource |
| [aws_security_group_rule.alb_egress](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/security_group_rule) | resource |
| [aws_security_group_rule.alb_http_ingress](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/security_group_rule) | resource |
| [aws_security_group_rule.alb_https_ingress](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/security_group_rule) | resource |
| [aws_wafv2_web_acl_association.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/wafv2_web_acl_association) | resource |

## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| <a name="input_access_logs_bucket"></a> [access\_logs\_bucket](#input\_access\_logs\_bucket) | S3 bucket name for ALB access logs. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_acm_certificate_arn"></a> [acm\_certificate\_arn](#input\_acm\_certificate\_arn) | ACM certificate ARN for HTTPS listener. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_deletion_protection"></a> [deletion\_protection](#input\_deletion\_protection) | Enable deletion protection for the ALB. | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_enable_access_logs"></a> [enable\_access\_logs](#input\_enable\_access\_logs) | Enable ALB access logging. | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_enable_http"></a> [enable\_http](#input\_enable\_http) | Enable HTTP listener (allowed in dev only). | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_enable_public_ingress"></a> [enable\_public\_ingress](#input\_enable\_public\_ingress) | Enable public ingress rules and listeners for the ALB. | `bool` | `true` | no |
| <a name="input_enable_waf"></a> [enable\_waf](#input\_enable\_waf) | Enable WAF web ACL association. | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_health_check_path"></a> [health\_check\_path](#input\_health\_check\_path) | HTTP path for target group health checks. | `string` | `"/"` | no |
| <a name="input_ingress_cidrs"></a> [ingress\_cidrs](#input\_ingress\_cidrs) | CIDR blocks allowed to access the ALB. | `list(string)` | <pre>[<br/>  "0.0.0.0/0"<br/>]</pre> | no |
| <a name="input_name_prefix"></a> [name\_prefix](#input\_name\_prefix) | Prefix used for naming ALB resources. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_public_subnet_ids"></a> [public\_subnet\_ids](#input\_public\_subnet\_ids) | Public subnet IDs for the ALB. | `list(string)` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_ssl_policy"></a> [ssl\_policy](#input\_ssl\_policy) | SSL policy for the HTTPS listener. | `string` | `"ELBSecurityPolicy-TLS13-1-2-2021-06"` | no |
| <a name="input_tags"></a> [tags](#input\_tags) | Tags to apply to ALB resources. | `map(string)` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_target_port"></a> [target\_port](#input\_target\_port) | Target port for the ALB target group. | `number` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_target_type"></a> [target\_type](#input\_target\_type) | Target type for the ALB target group (ip for ECS, instance for EC2). | `string` | `"ip"` | no |
| <a name="input_vpc_cidr"></a> [vpc\_cidr](#input\_vpc\_cidr) | CIDR block of the VPC (used for restrictive egress). | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_vpc_id"></a> [vpc\_id](#input\_vpc\_id) | VPC ID for the ALB. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_waf_acl_arn"></a> [waf\_acl\_arn](#input\_waf\_acl\_arn) | WAF web ACL ARN to associate with the ALB. | `string` | `null` | no |

## Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| <a name="output_alb_access_logs_bucket"></a> [alb\_access\_logs\_bucket](#output\_alb\_access\_logs\_bucket) | S3 bucket name for ALB access logs (null if disabled). |
| <a name="output_alb_arn"></a> [alb\_arn](#output\_alb\_arn) | ARN of the ALB. |
| <a name="output_alb_arn_suffix"></a> [alb\_arn\_suffix](#output\_alb\_arn\_suffix) | ARN suffix of the ALB (for CloudWatch dimensions). |
| <a name="output_alb_dns_name"></a> [alb\_dns\_name](#output\_alb\_dns\_name) | DNS name of the ALB. |
| <a name="output_alb_security_group_id"></a> [alb\_security\_group\_id](#output\_alb\_security\_group\_id) | Security group ID for the ALB. |
| <a name="output_http_listener_arn"></a> [http\_listener\_arn](#output\_http\_listener\_arn) | ARN of the HTTP listener (if enabled). |
| <a name="output_https_listener_arn"></a> [https\_listener\_arn](#output\_https\_listener\_arn) | ARN of the HTTPS listener. |
| <a name="output_target_group_arn"></a> [target\_group\_arn](#output\_target\_group\_arn) | ARN of the target group. |
| <a name="output_target_group_arn_suffix"></a> [target\_group\_arn\_suffix](#output\_target\_group\_arn\_suffix) | ARN suffix of the target group (for CloudWatch dimensions). |
<!-- END_TF_DOCS -->

Commit message:

feat(dns): add optional route53 records for public alb endpoint

modules/alb/README.md, after:

# ALB Module

This module owns the public edge: an internet-facing ALB, a target group, listeners, optional access logs, optional WAF association, and the security group rules around them. It expects the VPC, subnets, and ACM certificate to be provided by the environment, and it does not manage DNS or certificates.

## Why This Module Exists

- Keep the HTTPS-by-default behavior (and optional dev HTTP) in one place.
- Make the edge security group rules explicit and reusable.
- Avoid mixing edge concerns with ECS or networking logic.

<!-- BEGIN_TF_DOCS -->
## Requirements

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="requirement_aws"></a> [aws](#requirement\_aws) | >= 5.0 |

## Providers

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="provider_aws"></a> [aws](#provider\_aws) | 6.28.0 |

## Modules

No modules.

## Resources

| Name | Type |
|------|------|
| [aws_lb.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lb) | resource |
| [aws_lb_listener.http](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lb_listener) | resource |
| [aws_lb_listener.https](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lb_listener) | resource |
| [aws_lb_target_group.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/lb_target_group) | resource |
| [aws_security_group.alb](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/security_group) | resource |
| [aws_security_group_rule.alb_egress](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/security_group_rule) | resource |
| [aws_security_group_rule.alb_http_ingress](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/security_group_rule) | resource |
| [aws_security_group_rule.alb_https_ingress](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/security_group_rule) | resource |
| [aws_wafv2_web_acl_association.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/wafv2_web_acl_association) | resource |

## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| <a name="input_access_logs_bucket"></a> [access\_logs\_bucket](#input\_access\_logs\_bucket) | S3 bucket name for ALB access logs. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_acm_certificate_arn"></a> [acm\_certificate\_arn](#input\_acm\_certificate\_arn) | ACM certificate ARN for HTTPS listener. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_deletion_protection"></a> [deletion\_protection](#input\_deletion\_protection) | Enable deletion protection for the ALB. | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_enable_access_logs"></a> [enable\_access\_logs](#input\_enable\_access\_logs) | Enable ALB access logging. | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_enable_http"></a> [enable\_http](#input\_enable\_http) | Enable HTTP listener (allowed in dev only). | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_enable_public_ingress"></a> [enable\_public\_ingress](#input\_enable\_public\_ingress) | Enable public ingress rules and listeners for the ALB. | `bool` | `true` | no |
| <a name="input_enable_waf"></a> [enable\_waf](#input\_enable\_waf) | Enable WAF web ACL association. | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_health_check_path"></a> [health\_check\_path](#input\_health\_check\_path) | HTTP path for target group health checks. | `string` | `"/"` | no |
| <a name="input_ingress_cidrs"></a> [ingress\_cidrs](#input\_ingress\_cidrs) | CIDR blocks allowed to access the ALB. | `list(string)` | <pre>[<br/>  "0.0.0.0/0"<br/>]</pre> | no |
| <a name="input_name_prefix"></a> [name\_prefix](#input\_name\_prefix) | Prefix used for naming ALB resources. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_public_subnet_ids"></a> [public\_subnet\_ids](#input\_public\_subnet\_ids) | Public subnet IDs for the ALB. | `list(string)` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_ssl_policy"></a> [ssl\_policy](#input\_ssl\_policy) | SSL policy for the HTTPS listener. | `string` | `"ELBSecurityPolicy-TLS13-1-2-2021-06"` | no |
| <a name="input_tags"></a> [tags](#input\_tags) | Tags to apply to ALB resources. | `map(string)` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_target_port"></a> [target\_port](#input\_target\_port) | Target port for the ALB target group. | `number` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_target_type"></a> [target\_type](#input\_target\_type) | Target type for the ALB target group (ip for ECS, instance for EC2). | `string` | `"ip"` | no |
| <a name="input_vpc_cidr"></a> [vpc\_cidr](#input\_vpc\_cidr) | CIDR block of the VPC (used for restrictive egress). | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_vpc_id"></a> [vpc\_id](#input\_vpc\_id) | VPC ID for the ALB. | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_waf_acl_arn"></a> [waf\_acl\_arn](#input\_waf\_acl\_arn) | WAF web ACL ARN to associate with the ALB. | `string` | `null` | no |

## Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| <a name="output_alb_access_logs_bucket"></a> [alb\_access\_logs\_bucket](#output\_alb\_access\_logs\_bucket) | S3 bucket name for ALB access logs (null if disabled). |
| <a name="output_alb_arn"></a> [alb\_arn](#output\_alb\_arn) | ARN of the ALB. |
| <a name="output_alb_arn_suffix"></a> [alb\_arn\_suffix](#output\_alb\_arn\_suffix) | ARN suffix of the ALB (for CloudWatch dimensions). |
| <a name="output_alb_dns_name"></a> [alb\_dns\_name](#output\_alb\_dns\_name) | DNS name of the ALB. |
| <a name="output_alb_security_group_id"></a> [alb\_security\_group\_id](#output\_alb\_security\_group\_id) | Security group ID for the ALB. |
| <a name="output_alb_zone_id"></a> [alb\_zone\_id](#output\_alb\_zone\_id) | Route53 hosted zone ID for the ALB. |
| <a name="output_http_listener_arn"></a> [http\_listener\_arn](#output\_http\_listener\_arn) | ARN of the HTTP listener (if enabled). |
| <a name="output_https_listener_arn"></a> [https\_listener\_arn](#output\_https\_listener\_arn) | ARN of the HTTPS listener. |
| <a name="output_target_group_arn"></a> [target\_group\_arn](#output\_target\_group\_arn) | ARN of the target group. |
| <a name="output_target_group_arn_suffix"></a> [target\_group\_arn\_suffix](#output\_target\_group\_arn\_suffix) | ARN suffix of the target group (for CloudWatch dimensions). |
<!-- END_TF_DOCS -->
