docs/github-actions.md, before:

# GitHub Actions Setup

This repo uses GitHub Actions for CI. The main `terraform` job always runs; the `infracost` job runs on pull requests only when its required secrets are present. A separate `terraform-ci` workflow runs fmt/validate/lint and generates backendless plans for changed stacks when AWS credentials are available, then uploads the plan artifacts. It also exposes a manual, workflow-dispatch apply path that is gated on the checks job.

The `kubernetes-ci` workflow runs only when Kubernetes-related paths change (for example `k8s/`, `docs/kubernetes/`, or `policy/kubernetes/`). It runs the repo-local Kubernetes checks (`make k8s-validate`, `make k8s-lint`, `make k8s-policy`, `make k8s-sec`).

## Repository Settings

- Enable Actions (Settings -> Actions -> General).
- Workflow permissions: `Read repository contents` is enough for the default token; the workflow explicitly requests `pull-requests: write` and `id-token: write` on the Infracost job for PR comments and OIDC. If your org restricts token scopes, allow those permissions.
- If your org restricts actions, allow the actions used in `.github/workflows/ci.yml`.

## Required Secrets

Set these as repo or org secrets:

- `INFRACOST_API_KEY`: required to run the Infracost job.
- One of:
  - `AWS_ROLE_ARN` (recommended, OIDC), or
  - `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` + `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` (fallback).

If `INFRACOST_API_KEY` is missing, or AWS credentials are not set, the Infracost job is skipped. The rest of CI still runs.

## AWS OIDC Role (Recommended)

The bootstrap stack can create the OIDC provider and role. Enable it and scope the subjects to the repo/refs you expect:

```hcl
enable_github_oidc_role    = true
github_oidc_subjects       = ["repo:OWNER/REPO:pull_request", "repo:OWNER/REPO:ref:refs/heads/main"]
github_oidc_role_policy_arns = ["arn:aws:iam::ACCOUNT_ID:policy/ci-readonly"]
```

Apply bootstrap, then set `AWS_ROLE_ARN` to the `github_oidc_role_arn` output.
If GitHub rotates certificates, update `github_oidc_thumbprints` in bootstrap.

If you cannot use bootstrap, create an IAM OIDC provider for `token.actions.githubusercontent.com` with audience `sts.amazonaws.com`, then create a role that GitHub Actions can assume and attach a least-privilege policy appropriate for cost estimation.

Example trust policy (adjust `ACCOUNT_ID`, `OWNER`, `REPO`, and branch name):

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "Federated": "arn:aws:iam::ACCOUNT_ID:oidc-provider/token.actions.githubusercontent.com"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "token.actions.githubusercontent.com:aud": "sts.amazonaws.com"
        },
        "StringLike": {
          "token.actions.githubusercontent.com:sub": [
            "repo:OWNER/REPO:pull_request",
            "repo:OWNER/REPO:ref:refs/heads/main"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

Set `AWS_ROLE_ARN` to the role ARN.

## Static AWS Keys (Fallback)

If you cannot use OIDC, provide `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`. Use least-privilege, rotate regularly, and treat these as scoped CI credentials only.

## Verify

Open a pull request or push to `main`. The `terraform` job should run without secrets; the `infracost` job should run only when the secrets above are present.

Commit message:

docs(ci): clarify CI contract and intentional scope

docs/github-actions.md, after:

# GitHub Actions Setup

This repo uses GitHub Actions for CI. The main `terraform` job always runs; the `infracost` job runs on pull requests only when its required secrets are present. A separate `terraform-ci` workflow runs fmt/validate/lint and generates backendless plans for changed stacks when AWS credentials are available, then uploads the plan artifacts. It also exposes a manual, workflow-dispatch apply path that is gated on the checks job.

The `kubernetes-ci` workflow runs only when Kubernetes-related paths change (for example `k8s/`, `docs/kubernetes/`, or `policy/kubernetes/`). It runs the repo-local Kubernetes checks (`make k8s-validate`, `make k8s-lint`, `make k8s-policy`, `make k8s-sec`).

## CI Contract

CI is a quality gate only. It enforces:

- Terraform formatting, validation, linting, security scanning, docs checks, and `terraform test` in `.github/workflows/ci.yml`.
- Kubernetes validation/lint/policy/security checks when Kubernetes-related paths change in `.github/workflows/kubernetes-ci.yml`.
- Infracost cost estimation and the FinOps summary on PRs when `INFRACOST_API_KEY` and AWS credentials are present.
- Backendless plan generation for changed stacks in `.github/workflows/terraform-ci.yml` when AWS credentials are present, with plan artifacts uploaded.

CI explicitly does not:

- Deploy or apply automatically; there is no continuous delivery. The optional `terraform-ci` workflow-dispatch apply is manual, opt-in, and outside the CI contract.
- Perform drift detection or auto-remediation.
- Enforce org-wide policies (SCPs, AWS Config rules, GuardDuty baselines) or manage accounts.

These exclusions are intentional: the repo is scoped to a small, auditable platform baseline, and CI is meant to prove correctness without taking control of environments.

## Repository Settings

- Enable Actions (Settings -> Actions -> General).
- Workflow permissions: `Read repository contents` is enough for the default token; the workflow explicitly requests `pull-requests: write` and `id-token: write` on the Infracost job for PR comments and OIDC. If your org restricts token scopes, allow those permissions.
- If your org restricts actions, allow the actions used in `.github/workflows/ci.yml`.

## Required Secrets

Set these as repo or org secrets:

- `INFRACOST_API_KEY`: required to run the Infracost job.
- One of:
  - `AWS_ROLE_ARN` (recommended, OIDC), or
  - `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` + `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` (fallback).

If `INFRACOST_API_KEY` is missing, or AWS credentials are not set, the Infracost job is skipped. The rest of CI still runs.

## AWS OIDC Role (Recommended)

The bootstrap stack can create the OIDC provider and role. Enable it and scope the subjects to the repo/refs you expect:

```hcl
enable_github_oidc_role    = true
github_oidc_subjects       = ["repo:OWNER/REPO:pull_request", "repo:OWNER/REPO:ref:refs/heads/main"]
github_oidc_role_policy_arns = ["arn:aws:iam::ACCOUNT_ID:policy/ci-readonly"]
```

Apply bootstrap, then set `AWS_ROLE_ARN` to the `github_oidc_role_arn` output.
If GitHub rotates certificates, update `github_oidc_thumbprints` in bootstrap.

If you cannot use bootstrap, create an IAM OIDC provider for `token.actions.githubusercontent.com` with audience `sts.amazonaws.com`, then create a role that GitHub Actions can assume and attach a least-privilege policy appropriate for cost estimation.

Example trust policy (adjust `ACCOUNT_ID`, `OWNER`, `REPO`, and branch name):

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "Federated": "arn:aws:iam::ACCOUNT_ID:oidc-provider/token.actions.githubusercontent.com"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "token.actions.githubusercontent.com:aud": "sts.amazonaws.com"
        },
        "StringLike": {
          "token.actions.githubusercontent.com:sub": [
            "repo:OWNER/REPO:pull_request",
            "repo:OWNER/REPO:ref:refs/heads/main"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

Set `AWS_ROLE_ARN` to the role ARN.

## Static AWS Keys (Fallback)

If you cannot use OIDC, provide `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`. Use least-privilege, rotate regularly, and treat these as scoped CI credentials only.

## Verify

Open a pull request or push to `main`. The `terraform` job should run without secrets; the `infracost` job should run only when the secrets above are present.
