docs/runbook.md, before:

# Runbook

This is the short list of steps I actually use when operating this stack.

## Cost Estimate (Required)

Estimate costs before any deploy and pass the number into Terraform:

```bash
INFRACOST_API_KEY=... make cost
```

Capture the estimated monthly cost for the target environment, then export it as `TF_VAR_estimated_monthly_cost`.

## Deploy (Dev)

```bash
export TF_VAR_estimated_monthly_cost=123.45
cd environments/dev
terraform init -backend-config=backend.hcl
terraform apply -var-file=terraform.tfvars
```

## Deploy (Prod)

```bash
export TF_VAR_estimated_monthly_cost=123.45
cd environments/prod
terraform init -backend-config=backend.hcl
terraform apply -var-file=terraform.tfvars
```

## Build and Push an Image to ECR (Manual)

From the environment directory (set `AWS_REGION` to match `aws_region` in your tfvars):

```bash
AWS_REGION=us-east-1
IMAGE_TAG=latest
ECR_REPO=$(terraform output -raw ecr_repository_url)
aws ecr get-login-password --region "$AWS_REGION" | docker login --username AWS --password-stdin "$ECR_REPO"
docker build -t demo-app .
docker tag demo-app:latest "${ECR_REPO}:${IMAGE_TAG}"
docker push "${ECR_REPO}:${IMAGE_TAG}"
```

Update `image_tag` (or set `container_image` for a full override) in `terraform.tfvars`, then apply again.

## Production Hardening Toggles

- ALB access logs are enabled in prod by default; set `alb_access_logs_bucket` to the bootstrap output `alb_access_logs_bucket_name`.
- To tighten ALB log delivery, set `alb_access_logs_source_arns` in `bootstrap/terraform.tfvars` after the ALB exists, then re-apply bootstrap.
- WAF is opt-in. Set `alb_enable_waf = true` and `alb_waf_acl_arn` to an existing Web ACL ARN in the environment `terraform.tfvars`.
- Dev flow logs are opt-in. Set `enable_flow_logs = true` in `environments/dev/terraform.tfvars` when needed.

## Notifications

1) Set `alarm_sns_topic_arn` in the environment `terraform.tfvars` to the bootstrap output.
2) If you want email notifications, add addresses to `sns_email_subscriptions` in `bootstrap/terraform.tfvars` and re-apply.
3) Confirm the email subscription in each inbox.

Baseline alarms: ALB 5xx, ECS CPU, EC2 CPU (when enabled), and RDS CPU.

## Budget Alerts

1) Set `budget_notification_emails` or `budget_sns_topic_arn` in each environment `terraform.tfvars`.
2) Confirm email subscriptions or SNS endpoints as required.
3) When a budget warning fires, review the latest cost estimate and recent deploys before adjusting capacity.

## Deploy (Kubernetes Self-Managed)

1) Set `platform = "k8s_self_managed"` in the environment `terraform.tfvars`.
2) Apply the environment as usual.
3) Use the `cluster_access_instructions` output to access the control plane via SSM and apply the demo manifests:

```bash
kubectl apply -k k8s/overlays/dev
```

Prod uses the prod overlay:

```bash
kubectl apply -k k8s/overlays/prod
```

Verify basics:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n demo
kubectl get hpa -n demo
kubectl get netpol -n demo
```

If HPA reports `Unknown`, install metrics-server in the cluster first.

## Update ECS Image

1) Set `image_tag` (or `container_image`) in the environment `terraform.tfvars`.
2) Apply the environment again.

## Update Kubernetes Image

After applying the environment, use the resolved image output:

```bash
kubectl set image deployment/demo-app app=$(terraform output -raw resolved_container_image) -n demo
```

Kubernetes nodes use the ECR credential helper, so no expiring imagePullSecrets are required.

## Scale Compute

- Fargate (`ecs_capacity_mode = "fargate"`): update `desired_count`, `container_cpu`, or `container_memory`, then apply.
- Fargate Spot (`ecs_capacity_mode = "fargate_spot"`): update `desired_count`, `container_cpu`, or `container_memory`, then apply.
- EC2 capacity provider (`ecs_capacity_mode = "ec2"`): update `desired_count`, `ec2_desired_capacity`, `ec2_min_size`, `ec2_max_size`, or `ec2_instance_type`, then apply.
- Kubernetes workers: update `k8s_worker_desired_capacity`, `k8s_worker_min_size`, `k8s_worker_max_size`, or `k8s_worker_instance_type`, then apply.

## Handle Fargate Spot Interruptions

- Spot capacity can be reclaimed with short notice. ECS will try to replace tasks using the FARGATE fallback.
- Check ECS service events and task logs to confirm replacement, and increase `desired_count` if you need more buffer.

## Access EC2 Instances

EC2 capacity providers are designed for SSM access. Ensure the instance role has SSM permissions (default) and use Session Manager; no SSH ingress is opened by default.

Kubernetes control plane and worker nodes follow the same rule. Use Session Manager to connect to the control plane and run `kubectl` with `/etc/kubernetes/admin.conf`.

## Rotate kubeadm Join Token

Tokens expire by default. On the control plane instance:

```bash
kubeadm token create --print-join-command
aws ssm put-parameter --name <join-parameter-name> --type SecureString --value "<join-command>" --overwrite --region <region>
```

The default parameter name is `/<project>-<environment>/k8s/join-command`, unless overridden with `k8s_join_parameter_name`.

## Rotate RDS Master Password

RDS manages the master password in Secrets Manager. To rotate:

1) Trigger a rotation in Secrets Manager.
2) Update application credentials if the app caches them.

## RDS Restore Procedure

RDS does not restore in place. Always restore a snapshot into a new instance, validate it, and then cut over.

1) Identify the instance and snapshot:
   - `DB_ID=$(terraform output -raw rds_instance_id)`
   - Automated backups: `aws rds describe-db-snapshots --db-instance-identifier "$DB_ID" --snapshot-type automated --query 'DBSnapshots[].[DBSnapshotIdentifier,SnapshotCreateTime]' --output table`
   - Final snapshots (prod default): `terraform output -raw rds_final_snapshot_arn_pattern`

2) Restore to a new instance:
   - `RESTORE_ID="${DB_ID}-restore-$(date +%Y%m%d%H%M)"`
   - `aws rds restore-db-instance-from-db-snapshot --db-instance-identifier "$RESTORE_ID" --db-snapshot-identifier "$SNAPSHOT_ID"`
   - `aws rds wait db-instance-available --db-instance-identifier "$RESTORE_ID"`

3) Fetch the new endpoint and cut over:
   - `RESTORE_ENDPOINT=$(aws rds describe-db-instances --db-instance-identifier "$RESTORE_ID" --query 'DBInstances[0].Endpoint.Address' --output text)`
   - Update application configuration/secrets to use the restored endpoint and verify application health.

4) Reconcile with Terraform (optional but recommended):
   - If you need Terraform to manage the restored instance, plan a controlled replacement so the identifier matches `<project>-<environment>-db`, then import the instance into state.
   - Dev (`prevent_destroy = false`): `terraform import module.rds.aws_db_instance.this[0] "<db-instance-identifier>"`
   - Prod (`prevent_destroy = true`): `terraform import module.rds.aws_db_instance.protected[0] "<db-instance-identifier>"`

Warnings:
- `db_deletion_protection` and `prevent_destroy` block destructive actions; only disable them when you are ready to replace the instance, then re-enable after recovery.
- Keep `db_skip_final_snapshot = false` in prod so a final snapshot is captured before any deletion.
- Do not assume Terraform can restore the existing instance in place; it requires a new instance and an import.

## Investigate Alarms

- ALB 5xx: check target health, ECS task logs, and recent deploys.
- ECS CPU: scale tasks or increase CPU/memory.
- EC2 CPU: scale the EC2 Auto Scaling group (ECS capacity or Kubernetes workers) or move to a larger instance type.
- RDS CPU: scale the instance class or review queries and connections.

## Rollback

Revert the Terraform change (or the commit that introduced it), then apply again. If the container image caused the issue, roll back the image tag and re-apply.

## Delete Dev Environment

```bash
cd environments/dev
terraform destroy -var-file=terraform.tfvars
```

Prod deletions are blocked by `prevent_destroy`.

Commit message:

feat(observability): expand baseline alarms and dashboards

docs/runbook.md, after:

# Runbook

This is the short list of steps I actually use when operating this stack.

## Cost Estimate (Required)

Estimate costs before any deploy and pass the number into Terraform:

```bash
INFRACOST_API_KEY=... make cost
```

Capture the estimated monthly cost for the target environment, then export it as `TF_VAR_estimated_monthly_cost`.

## Deploy (Dev)

```bash
export TF_VAR_estimated_monthly_cost=123.45
cd environments/dev
terraform init -backend-config=backend.hcl
terraform apply -var-file=terraform.tfvars
```

## Deploy (Prod)

```bash
export TF_VAR_estimated_monthly_cost=123.45
cd environments/prod
terraform init -backend-config=backend.hcl
terraform apply -var-file=terraform.tfvars
```

## Build and Push an Image to ECR (Manual)

From the environment directory (set `AWS_REGION` to match `aws_region` in your tfvars):

```bash
AWS_REGION=us-east-1
IMAGE_TAG=latest
ECR_REPO=$(terraform output -raw ecr_repository_url)
aws ecr get-login-password --region "$AWS_REGION" | docker login --username AWS --password-stdin "$ECR_REPO"
docker build -t demo-app .
docker tag demo-app:latest "${ECR_REPO}:${IMAGE_TAG}"
docker push "${ECR_REPO}:${IMAGE_TAG}"
```

Update `image_tag` (or set `container_image` for a full override) in `terraform.tfvars`, then apply again.

## Production Hardening Toggles

- ALB access logs are enabled in prod by default; set `alb_access_logs_bucket` to the bootstrap output `alb_access_logs_bucket_name`.
- To tighten ALB log delivery, set `alb_access_logs_source_arns` in `bootstrap/terraform.tfvars` after the ALB exists, then re-apply bootstrap.
- WAF is opt-in. Set `alb_enable_waf = true` and `alb_waf_acl_arn` to an existing Web ACL ARN in the environment `terraform.tfvars`.
- Dev flow logs are opt-in. Set `enable_flow_logs = true` in `environments/dev/terraform.tfvars` when needed.

## Notifications

1) Set `enable_alarms = true` in dev if you want alarms; prod enforces alarms on.
2) Set `alarm_sns_topic_arn` in the environment `terraform.tfvars` to the bootstrap output.
3) If you want email notifications, add addresses to `sns_email_subscriptions` in `bootstrap/terraform.tfvars` and re-apply.
4) Confirm the email subscription in each inbox.

Baseline alarms: ALB 5xx, ALB latency p95, ALB unhealthy hosts, ECS CPU, ECS memory, ECS desired vs running, EC2 CPU (when enabled), RDS CPU, and RDS free storage.

## Dashboards

Each environment creates a CloudWatch dashboard named `<project>-<environment>-observability` with ALB, compute, and RDS metrics.

## Logs

- ECS logs land in `/aws/ecs/<project>-<environment>` and honor `log_retention_in_days`.
- Self-managed Kubernetes logs land in `/aws/k8s/<project>-<environment>` using the same retention.
- RDS exports error logs only by default (`db_log_exports = ["postgresql"]`); slow query logs are opt-in.

## Budget Alerts

1) Set `budget_notification_emails` or `budget_sns_topic_arn` in each environment `terraform.tfvars`.
2) Confirm email subscriptions or SNS endpoints as required.
3) When a budget warning fires, review the latest cost estimate and recent deploys before adjusting capacity.

## Deploy (Kubernetes Self-Managed)

1) Set `platform = "k8s_self_managed"` in the environment `terraform.tfvars`.
2) Apply the environment as usual.
3) Use the `cluster_access_instructions` output to access the control plane via SSM and apply the demo manifests:

```bash
kubectl apply -k k8s/overlays/dev
```

Prod uses the prod overlay:

```bash
kubectl apply -k k8s/overlays/prod
```

Verify basics:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n demo
kubectl get hpa -n demo
kubectl get netpol -n demo
```

If HPA reports `Unknown`, install metrics-server in the cluster first.

## Update ECS Image

1) Set `image_tag` (or `container_image`) in the environment `terraform.tfvars`.
2) Apply the environment again.

## Update Kubernetes Image

After applying the environment, use the resolved image output:

```bash
kubectl set image deployment/demo-app app=$(terraform output -raw resolved_container_image) -n demo
```

Kubernetes nodes use the ECR credential helper, so no expiring imagePullSecrets are required.

## Scale Compute

- Fargate (`ecs_capacity_mode = "fargate"`): update `desired_count`, `container_cpu`, or `container_memory`, then apply.
- Fargate Spot (`ecs_capacity_mode = "fargate_spot"`): update `desired_count`, `container_cpu`, or `container_memory`, then apply.
- EC2 capacity provider (`ecs_capacity_mode = "ec2"`): update `desired_count`, `ec2_desired_capacity`, `ec2_min_size`, `ec2_max_size`, or `ec2_instance_type`, then apply.
- Kubernetes workers: update `k8s_worker_desired_capacity`, `k8s_worker_min_size`, `k8s_worker_max_size`, or `k8s_worker_instance_type`, then apply.

## Handle Fargate Spot Interruptions

- Spot capacity can be reclaimed with short notice. ECS will try to replace tasks using the FARGATE fallback.
- Check ECS service events and task logs to confirm replacement, and increase `desired_count` if you need more buffer.

## Access EC2 Instances

EC2 capacity providers are designed for SSM access. Ensure the instance role has SSM permissions (default) and use Session Manager; no SSH ingress is opened by default.

Kubernetes control plane and worker nodes follow the same rule. Use Session Manager to connect to the control plane and run `kubectl` with `/etc/kubernetes/admin.conf`.

## Rotate kubeadm Join Token

Tokens expire by default. On the control plane instance:

```bash
kubeadm token create --print-join-command
aws ssm put-parameter --name <join-parameter-name> --type SecureString --value "<join-command>" --overwrite --region <region>
```

The default parameter name is `/<project>-<environment>/k8s/join-command`, unless overridden with `k8s_join_parameter_name`.

## Rotate RDS Master Password

RDS manages the master password in Secrets Manager. To rotate:

1) Trigger a rotation in Secrets Manager.
2) Update application credentials if the app caches them.

## RDS Restore Procedure

RDS does not restore in place. Always restore a snapshot into a new instance, validate it, and then cut over.

1) Identify the instance and snapshot:
   - `DB_ID=$(terraform output -raw rds_instance_id)`
   - Automated backups: `aws rds describe-db-snapshots --db-instance-identifier "$DB_ID" --snapshot-type automated --query 'DBSnapshots[].[DBSnapshotIdentifier,SnapshotCreateTime]' --output table`
   - Final snapshots (prod default): `terraform output -raw rds_final_snapshot_arn_pattern`

2) Restore to a new instance:
   - `RESTORE_ID="${DB_ID}-restore-$(date +%Y%m%d%H%M)"`
   - `aws rds restore-db-instance-from-db-snapshot --db-instance-identifier "$RESTORE_ID" --db-snapshot-identifier "$SNAPSHOT_ID"`
   - `aws rds wait db-instance-available --db-instance-identifier "$RESTORE_ID"`

3) Fetch the new endpoint and cut over:
   - `RESTORE_ENDPOINT=$(aws rds describe-db-instances --db-instance-identifier "$RESTORE_ID" --query 'DBInstances[0].Endpoint.Address' --output text)`
   - Update application configuration/secrets to use the restored endpoint and verify application health.

4) Reconcile with Terraform (optional but recommended):
   - If you need Terraform to manage the restored instance, plan a controlled replacement so the identifier matches `<project>-<environment>-db`, then import the instance into state.
   - Dev (`prevent_destroy = false`): `terraform import module.rds.aws_db_instance.this[0] "<db-instance-identifier>"`
   - Prod (`prevent_destroy = true`): `terraform import module.rds.aws_db_instance.protected[0] "<db-instance-identifier>"`

Warnings:
- `db_deletion_protection` and `prevent_destroy` block destructive actions; only disable them when you are ready to replace the instance, then re-enable after recovery.
- Keep `db_skip_final_snapshot = false` in prod so a final snapshot is captured before any deletion.
- Do not assume Terraform can restore the existing instance in place; it requires a new instance and an import.

## Investigate Alarms

- ALB 5xx: check target health, application logs, and recent deploys.
- ALB latency p95: check upstream dependencies (ECS tasks or Kubernetes nodes) and the database; scale compute if CPU/memory is saturated.
- ALB unhealthy hosts: check target group health checks, task/node health, and security group rules.
- ECS CPU: scale tasks or increase CPU/memory.
- ECS memory: increase task memory or reduce in-process caching.
- ECS desired vs running: check ECS service events, deployment progress, and capacity provider headroom.
- EC2 CPU: scale the Auto Scaling group (ECS capacity or Kubernetes workers) or move to a larger instance type.
- RDS CPU: scale the instance class or review queries and connections.
- RDS free storage: increase allocated storage or reduce data footprint.

## Rollback

Revert the Terraform change (or the commit that introduced it), then apply again. If the container image caused the issue, roll back the image tag and re-apply.

## Delete Dev Environment

```bash
cd environments/dev
terraform destroy -var-file=terraform.tfvars
```

Prod deletions are blocked by `prevent_destroy`.
